DEADLOCK DOLLY 0.5.1 ALPHA — WINDOWS PORTABLE

A camera-path editor for local Deadlock replays.

THIS MOD INJECTS CODE INTO DEADLOCK — USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.
Native mode loads a user-mode DLL for camera rendering and in-game controls.
It does not install a kernel driver.

KEEP -insecure IN DEADLOCK'S LAUNCH OPTIONS WHILE USING DOLLY.
The launcher also adds -dev -insecure -console to its editing session.
Close that session before launching Deadlock normally.


GETTING STARTED

1. Extract the whole Windows ZIP and open Dolly.exe. Keep _internal beside it.
   Python and the native helper are included.
2. Open Steam, sign in, and close any running Deadlock game. Use DirectX 11.
3. On Home, choose Deadlock's executable and a local, extracted .dem replay,
   or choose a demo from Replays.
4. Click Play replay. Dolly initializes the unlocker in the hideout before
   loading the replay, then pauses it with native camera controls ready.
5. Move to a view and press Ctrl+Alt+K. Advance the replay and capture the next view.
   F8 opens the in-game panel for capture, saved views and playback.
6. Edit framing and arrival times on the desktop Cameras tab. Effects contains
   the depth-of-field preset. Save shots from the desktop File menu.
7. Click Play shot or press F5 to play the replay and camera path together.
   Hide HUD controls HUD visibility during playback; it returns afterward.


DEFAULT CONTROLS

Ctrl+Alt+K     Capture camera
Ctrl+Alt+R     Replace selected camera
P             Pause/resume replay
F5 / F6       Play path / Stop and restore
PageUp/Down   Previous/next saved camera at the current replay moment
Comma/Period  Seek backward/forward one second
F7            Open/close console
F8            Toggle Dolly panel
F9            Switch to/from Deadlock's replay UI for hero selection
F10           Enter paused flight from Dolly's panel or a held view
WASD          Move relative to the camera
Space/Ctrl    Move up/down
Mouse/arrows  Look around
Shift/Alt     Move faster/slower
Q/E           Camera roll

Keybinds saves keyboard and Mouse4/Mouse5 assignments, movement speed and mouse
sensitivity. F7 is reserved for the console. Settings survive updates in
%APPDATA%/DeadlockDolly/settings.json.

The console receives normal typing without moving the camera or triggering
Dolly shortcuts. F7 or Escape closes it and returns to the previous UI.
F8 closes the console and opens the Dolly panel.
From Deadlock's replay UI, F8 returns to the panel and F9 returns to flight.
Returning hides both the replay controls and character HUD. F9 shows them again.
Release held movement keys after switching windows before pressing them again.

Capture also works while the replay is playing and leaves it paused.
The in-game capture key saves the rendered view and tick at the keypress.
Desktop capture waits for a paused rendered view before saving its tick.

Replay timing is the default: advance the replay between captures to set their
arrival times. Timed shot can space multiple views at one paused tick. Framing
uses aspect ratios, with 16:9 as Normal. Frozen preview plays the camera path
while the scene stays paused. Stop / restore returns to the game's camera,
which may be elsewhere, and restores camera settings.


RECORDED DEMOS

Local tv_record .dem files can be selected like other replays. A native shot
starting between recorded packets uses the next verified packet and reports the
skipped fraction. Camera and effect key times stay unchanged. Frozen native
preview keeps the current scene without seeking. Console position-calibration
recovery can still fail when it needs an unavailable adjacent tick.


IN-GAME PLAYBACK AND PATH GUIDES

F8 opens Playback speed, Updates / s and Show path guides. Speed changes the
next shot's playback rate; Updates / s controls monitoring in Native mode.
Camera and supported effects still follow every rendered frame. Stop playback
before changing those settings. Desktop and in-game choices stay synchronized.

Path guides show camera positions, facing direction and the authored spline
while editing in paused flight. The selected camera is gold. Guides hide during
playback, console use and the game UI. They show through walls and are editing
guides; the camera glyphs are not live camera thumbnails. Large paths reduce
marker density while keeping the selected view visible.

On the desktop Effects tab, + Range DOF adds r_dof_override_ranges. Enter four
numbers separated by spaces: near blurry, near crisp, far crisp, far blurry.
Example: -100 0 180 2000. Each component can animate with the shot. Four zeros
turn off the direct range override. + Citadel DOF keeps the existing preset.
Vector shots save as project format 3 and require this or a newer version;
existing scalar-only shots keep format 2.

Supported commands and examples: Supported_Camera_Cvars.md
Machine-readable list: Supported_Camera_Cvars.json


VIDEO AND RESHADE

Full guide: Video_and_ReShade.md

Choose a new MP4 filename, 30/60 FPS and bitrate on the desktop Export tab.
Return to the game and use F8 > Record video, then Play shot or F5.
F8 > Finish recording saves the MP4. Recording continues through camera handoffs and desktop controls. Wait for finalization before closing Deadlock.

Capture uses the current even-sized SDR game resolution, up to 3840 x 2160.
It records in real time without audio. Missed capture slots are counted; lower
resolution, shader cost or export FPS if the game/encoder cannot keep up.
Dolly controls and guides are excluded. The game HUD follows playback settings.

ReShade 6.8.0/API 20 with full add-on support is a separate download. Extract ReShade64.dll from the official full
add-on setup EXE with 7-Zip into a folder outside the game. Select it on Export
and enable it. F11 opens its own menu; change the shortcut in Keybinds.
A single-sample SDR swapchain and manual runtime functions are required. Add shader/texture search
paths and presets through ReShade. Color effects are supported; no game depth
texture is supplied yet. Native Dolly DOF still works.

ReShade config: %APPDATA%\DeadlockDolly\ReShade\ReShade.ini
The runtime path is remembered. Disable affects this session; Forget clears
the saved path for future launches. No graphics loader is installed beside
Deadlock. The loaded DLL remains resident until the editing game exits.

COMPATIBILITY AND UPDATES

0.5.1 is an alpha. The camera hook and interpolation remain unchanged from
0.4.7. Recorded-demo handling from 0.4.8 is retained. Earlier renderer slowdowns
do not have a confirmed general fix. MP4 and ReShade need in-game testing.
Fixed-step rendering, audio, separate layers and expanded in-game curves
remain planned.

Native mode supports reviewed client.dll, engine2.dll and tier0.dll builds.
A Deadlock update can require a Dolly update. Home > Troubleshooting contains
the Console (legacy) driver and manual startup controls.

Close Deadlock and Dolly before updating. Keep saved shots and logs, including
pending recovery backups. Use the complete new portable folder; _internal must
match Dolly.exe. After an interrupted launch, close Deadlock and use
File > Recover game configuration, or run:
  Dolly.exe --recover


SESSION FILES

The game/citadel_dolly_... folder is created per editing launch, not by a
diagnostic export. Dolly restores the original gameinfo.gi after unlocker
initialization and removes the temporary plugin folder when Deadlock exits.
If Dolly closes first, a background helper waits for that exact game process,
removes its generated files and exits. Loaded DLLs cannot be removed while
the game still uses them. Close the editing game before a normal Steam launch.

The next Dolly launch also checks marked leftovers from older versions.
With Deadlock closed, File > Recover game configuration runs that cleanup
without starting a game. Configuration conflicts and unrecognized files are
left untouched. Keep logs and original backups for diagnostics/recovery;
personal settings and saved shots are not removed.


SUPPORT

Contact me on Discord @Cravvnn or submit an issue on GitHub:
https://github.com/cravvnn/deadlock-dolly/issues

Include the Dolly version, the action that failed and the Export diagnostics
ZIP. If Dolly does not open, include logs/Dolly_startup.log and logs/Dolly.log
when available. Logs and recovery journals are beside Dolly.exe.

Full guide: https://github.com/cravvnn/deadlock-dolly/blob/main/docs/USER_GUIDE.md
Component notices are in LICENSE.txt and _internal/third_party.
